[ARToolKit NFT](/ARToolKit_NFT "wikilink") \>

Why track natural features?
---------------------------

The move to natural feature tracking is motivated by the simple
observation that when using ARToolKit's fiducial tracking, it is very
easy for the user to go outside the bounds of the tracking. Perhaps the
user tries to touch an augmented object, and inadvertently obscures one
of the markers being used for tracking. Or perhaps the user tries to get
up close to an object, resulting in the marker straying outside the
limited frame of the camera. In both cases, tracking will be lost and
the augmented environment with it. In these cases, it would be much
nicer to track natural features of objects in the scene. Of course, at
present, such general tracking of the environment is too computationally
intensive for real-time tracking, so in ARToolKit NFT, we make some
simplifications to enable this tracking. Firstly, we track features only
of flat (planar) surfaces, and the features we track are points in the
image. We choose the points in advance through a training step (similar
to training a pictorial marker in ARToolKit) and select the best set of
features to track at a number of resolutions.

ARToolKit NFT
-------------

ARToolKit NFT is the name of our SDK (software development kit) that
works with ARToolKit Professional to implement tracking of natural
features of textured planar surfaces. That is, is uses the texture in a
flat surface for tracking, largely replacing the black-and-white markers
on the surface. This provides a number of exciting new capabilities to
AR applications, including the possibility to add a hidden dimension to
otherwise innocuous pictures or illustrations, to provide increased
robustness to occlusion of the image by objects in the environment, and
improved tracking accuracy.

[Category:ARToolKit NFT](/Category:ARToolKit_NFT "wikilink")