[Main Page](/Main_Page "wikilink") \> [ARToolKit
Professional](/ARToolKit_Professional "wikilink") \>

About libARvideo's configuration options
----------------------------------------

ARToolKit Professional includes libARvideo, a cross-platform library
which captures video from a variety of different sources. In general,
most users of ARToolKit Professional who have a single webcam attached
to their system will never delve into the workings of this library.
However, the module or modules inside this library generally allow for a
degree of configuration to control parameters of the capture sources
with which they interface.

This section of the manual details some of the configuration options
available with libARvideo.

How to change the video configuration in your program, or in an ARToolKit Professional example
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Setting the configuration at run-time

Video configurations are passed to libARvideo in a standard way; as a
c-string containing text. What to put in the *contents* of the string
depends on your capture source.

*The contents of the string are different for different capture sources
because although libARvideo presents a standard API for passing video to
other code (e.g. libAR, libARgsub_lite and libARgsub), there is custom
code inside libARvideo for each capture source (e.g. QuickTime,
DirectShow, libdc1394). The capture sources generally implement a
variety of different approaches to video stream acquisition. So, the
configuration parameters are different depending on the underlying
capture module being used.*

The simplest way to specify the video configuration (without recompiling
the example applications) is to create an environment variable
"ARTOOLKIT5_CONFIG" with the video configuration you wish to use. See
[Setting an environment
variable](/Setting_an_environment_variable "wikilink") for more
information on how to set environment variables.

#### ARToolKit Utilities

Some of the ARToolKit utilities (including calib_camera, calib_stereo
and check_id) accept video configuration(s) as command-line parameters.
The desired configuration is passed after a parameter "--vconf"
(or --vconfL or --vconfR for calib_stereo). Note that if the video
configuration string includes spaces, it must be quoted to prevent the
shell passing it as multiple parameters.

### Setting the configuration programmatically

Video configuration can also be passed to libARvideo programmatically
(as the sole parameter to the arVideoOpen() call). When no string (NULL)
or an empty string ("") is passed, libARvideo looks for an environment
variable "ARTOOLKIT5_CONFIG" (as mentioned above) for the string. If
this environment variable is not found, the video module will use a
default configuration.

In most of the ARToolKit Professional examples, the video config is
specified in a string named "vconf". Do a search in your source editor
for "vconf" to see this. So in most of the examples, editing the vconf
string in the sourcecode will change the video configuration being used.

Of course, editing sourcecode requires recompiling for the changes to
take effect, so a few of the examples accept a command-line parameter
and use this as vconf. You can look at the sourcecode to see if a given
example does so.

#### ARToolKit for Unity

ARToolKit for Unity allows you to specify video configuration separately
for each supported platform directly in the Unity Editor.

Available capture sources and switching between them
----------------------------------------------------

There is **one** standard configuration option (which is new to
ARToolKit Professional, and not found in any version of ARToolKit v2.x).
Where more than one capture source has been compiled into libARvideo on
a given platform, this option allows switching between the options.

This table lists the capture sources available on each platform. (N.B.
if you have a binary release of ARToolKit Professional, not all of these
capture sources may have been compiled into your copy):

INSERT TABLES

[Category:ARToolKit
Professional](/Category:ARToolKit_Professional "wikilink")
[Category:iOS](/Category:iOS "wikilink") [Category:OS
X](/Category:OS_X "wikilink")
[Category:Windows](/Category:Windows "wikilink")
[Category:Linux](/Category:Linux "wikilink")
[Category:Mobile](/Category:Mobile "wikilink")
[Category:Desktop](/Category:Desktop "wikilink")