[Main Page](/Main_Page "wikilink") \>
[Conjurare](/Conjurare "wikilink") \>

Running Conjurare with the sample content
-----------------------------------------

Conjurare comes preconfigured with a small number of sample markers and
associated content. This content serves as a placeholder for your own
content. To view the sample content, you first need to print out the
four sample marker patterns. These are best printed on a low-glass
high-contrast printer, e.g. a laser printer on plain paper. When
printed, the sample patterns will look similar to this:

[Image:Sample_ARToolKit_markers.jpeg](/Image:Sample_ARToolKit_markers.jpeg "wikilink")

Next make sure your webcam is connected.

Next, launch Conjurare. Conjurare is launched by opening the main folder
and clicking on the file named “Conjurare (Windows).cmd” file (if you’re
running Microsoft Windows) or “Conjurare (Mac).command” file (if you’re
running Mac OS X). Conjurare comes pre-configured with just one command
file for each operating system, which launches the application in a
default state. Later on, when you configure Conjurare for your
application, you can add other command files for your preferred program
configuration.

*If this seems unusual, remember that Conjurare is not a GUI
application, that is, it does not use the windows, menu bars and dialog
buttons you might use in other presentation applications like Microsoft
Powerpoint. Instead, Conjurare runs as a command-line application, that
is, an application which is launched from a low-level command prompt in
your operating system, and which sends information about activity and
errors into the same command window.*

Upon launch, Conjurare will show a dialog box allowing you to configure
your webcam.

[Image:Windows DirectShow video capture PIN
dialog.jpg](/Image:Windows_DirectShow_video_capture_PIN_dialog.jpg "wikilink")

If you have more than one webcam connected, see [Conjurare command line
parameters](/Conjurare_command_line_parameters "wikilink") for
information on how to tell Conjurare which webcam to use.

Using the controls in the dialog, you might wish to manually adjust the
image so that you get a nice bright image with good contrast between
light and dark parts of the image.

Click OK. At this point, you should see some information scroll past in
the console about model loading , and the main Conjurare window will
open. Point the camera at the printed markers, and you will see the
sample content.

If the main window doesn’t load, or Conjurare exits, see
[Troubleshooting Conjurare launch
problems](/Troubleshooting_Conjurare_launch_problems "wikilink") for
what to do next.

### Controlling the application

While Conjurare is running, there are a number of keyboard controls
which perform various actions in the application. See the page [List of
Conjurare keyboard
controls](/List_of_Conjurare_keyboard_controls "wikilink") for the full
listing.

[Category:Conjurare](/Category:Conjurare "wikilink")