[Main Page](/Main_Page "wikilink") \> [ARToolKit
Professional](/ARToolKit_Professional "wikilink") \> [ARToolKit for
iOS](/ARToolKit_for_iOS "wikilink") \>

Introduction
------------

ARToolKit for iOS offers a wide variety of options for control of the
cameras on the device, and the stream coming from them.

You can choose between rear (main) and front cameras, on devices which
have more than one camera, and additionally, can request different
resolution image data from the cameras. Configuration of these options
is performed by use of named parameters to the arVideoOpen() function
(in the -start method of the ARViewController class). See
[Configuring_video_capture_in_ARToolKit_Professional\#AR_VIDEO_DEVICE_IPHONE](/Configuring_video_capture_in_ARToolKit_Professional#AR_VIDEO_DEVICE_IPHONE "wikilink").

Camera calibration information holds the lens model needed to get
ARToolKit tracking working properly. This is pre-supplied for all
current supported iOS device models, including specific calibrations for
different focus-distances of the iPhone 4 and 4S rear (main) camera, and
front cameras on the iPhone 4 and 4S, iPod touch 4G, iPad 2, and iPad 3.
With release 10 (ARToolKit version 4.5.11), loading of these camera
parameters has also been simplified by addition of support to libARvideo
for directly requesting the camera parameter structure. See the release
10 release notes and look at the -start method of the ARViewController
class for example usage.

Other capabilities include flipping the generated video stream
vertically or horizontally.

The best guide to camera usage is to examine the example applications
carefully, particulary ARViewController, as it is the class which
handles most of the interaction with libARvideo. Additional helpful
information can be found in the header files <AR/sys/videoiPhone>,
<AR/sys/CameraVideo.h> and <AR/sys/MovieVideo.h>.

[Category:ARToolKit
Professional](/Category:ARToolKit_Professional "wikilink")
[Category:Mobile](/Category:Mobile "wikilink")
[Category:iOS](/Category:iOS "wikilink")