[Main Page](/Main_Page "wikilink") \> [ARToolKit for
Unity](/ARToolKit_for_Unity "wikilink") \>

Introduction
------------

ARToolKit for Unity supports natural feature tracking (NFT), which will
be familiar to users of ARToolKit Professional for mobile and desktop
platforms. ARToolKit's NFT uses the natural features of flat, 2D,
textured surfaces. You can find collected information on ARToolKit's NFT
capabilities on the page [ARToolKit NFT](/ARToolKit_NFT "wikilink").

How to use an existing NFT dataset in Unity
-------------------------------------------

NFT mode is enabled by adding an "ARMarker" script to the scene and
choosing "NFT" as the marker type. This makes available an additional
field where you can enter the name of the dataset. The actual NFT data
which are generated by the genTexData utility should placed into the
folder "Assets/StreamingAssets" of your Unity project.

The SDK includes an example dataset (file names: gibraltar.iset,
gibraltar.fset, gibraltar.fset2). The example NFT dataset can be enabled
by entering the basename of the datafiles (in this case: gibraltar) into
the "dataset" field.

[<File:ARToolKit> for Unity - NFT
options.png](/File:ARToolKit_for_Unity_-_NFT_options.png "wikilink")

Generating new NFT datasets
---------------------------

An NFT dataset must be generated for each surface you wish to track.
This is done using the genTexData command-line tool. The ARToolKit NFT
for Unity Windows installer / Mac OS X .zip file include genTexData in
the bin/ directory. See [Training ARToolKit NFT to a new
surface](/Training_ARToolKit_NFT_to_a_new_surface "wikilink") and
[ARToolKit NFT Utilities:
genTexData](/ARToolKit_NFT_Utilities:_genTexData "wikilink") for usage.

*The NFT dataset format changed with ARToolKit Professional v5.0
(incorporated into ARToolKit for Unity v5.0) so any datasets created
with previous versions of the tools will need to be regenerated if being
used with ARToolKit for Unity v5.0 and later.*

Deployment notes
----------------

If you are not using NFT markers, be sure to remove any NFT datasets
from the StreamingAssets folder before final build.

[Category:ARToolKit for Unity](/Category:ARToolKit_for_Unity "wikilink")