[Main Page](/Main_Page "wikilink") \> [ARToolKit for
Unity](/ARToolKit_for_Unity "wikilink") \>

What is ARToolKit for Unity?
----------------------------

ARToolKit for Unity is a plugin for the [Unity](http://www.unity3d.com)
game engine that integrate's ARToolKit's augmented reality tracking with
Unity's graphical and game development features. ARToolKit is a computer
vision library that provides the tracking functionality required to
build augmented reality applications, and ARToolKit for Unity extendsthe
tools that content creators are already using, simplifying the process
of creating AR applications. With ARToolKit for Unity, creators building
games, visualizations, or scientific and marketing applications can
easily build interactive AR leveraging Unity's strengths in cross
platform support (desktop, web, mobile and console), powerful scripting
capabilities, simple drag-and-drop editing, and a strong support
community.

It makes sense to start with ARToolKit for Unity rather than some other
AR SDK, because ARToolKit for Unity supports the widest range of desktop
and mobile platforms all from the same Unity project.

What does it do?
----------------

At the most basic level, what the plugin does is align a virtual camera
within Unity with a real-world camera (such as a webcam) relative to a
tracked marker target. For example, if you print a marker on a piece of
paper and point your webcam at it, the corresponding virtual camera in
Unity will "look" at the equivalent spot in the virtual world. If you
then place a 3D model in the virtual world, and overlay it on the
incoming video, you produce an augmented reality view.

[250px](/File:UnityHelicopter.png "wikilink")

The plugin also manages all aspect of communicating with the camera and
presenting the camera image as a video background for video see-through
AR applications. It supports mono and stereo cameras, and mono and
stereo displays, in either optical- or video see-through configurations.

You do not need to do a single line of scripting to begin working with
ARToolKit for Unity. It includes extensions to the Unity editor that
allow you to configure the required AR objects directly, as well as live
in-editor previewing of your AR scene. However for those who want to
tightly integrate ARToolKit with their Unity project, full script
control is available over all aspects of the functionality, allowing you
to dynamically add markers, start and stop tracking, and change
parameters.

[Category:ARToolKit for Unity](/Category:ARToolKit_for_Unity "wikilink")